Add new SDL system Structure using Mediation Application for Middle/Low-end Class Model of Powered Two Wheeler and low-cost vehicle models (#1132)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/NNNN-Add-new-SDL-System-Structure-using-Mediation-Application.md

# Add new SDL system Structure using Mediation Application for Middle/Low-end Class Model of Powered Two Wheeler and low-cost vehicle models

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-Add-new-SDL-System-Structure-using-Mediation-Application.md)
* Author: [Akihiro Miyazaki (Nexty)](https://github.com/Akihiro-Miyazaki)
* Status: **Awaiting review**
* Impacted Platforms: [ iOS / Java Suite / JavaScript Suite / HMI / Policy Server / SHAID / RPC / Protocol ]

## Introduction

> This proposal is to construct new SDL system for a Head Unit(HU) with low performed ECU for Powered Two Wheeler (PTW) *1 middle/low-end class models and low-cost vehicle models.

Author: @theresalech -san,
Thank you for your comment.
"ECU" stands for "Electronic Control Unit".
Therefore, we will modify to "Electronic Control Unit (ECU)" and make a commit it.
Thank you.

*1 Powered Two Wheeler (PTW) includes motorcycle/scooter/moped.

## Motivation

The current SDL system is mainly for four-wheeled vehicles and requires a high-performance/high-resolution system.(The binary size is 177MB when built with x86_64.) However, it is not possible to mount a high-performance/high-resolution system on a PTW and low-cost vehicles due to the limitation of space and price that it has. Therefore, support for PTW and low-cost vehicles in the current SDL system is not incorporated. The main purpose of this proposal is to construct new SDL system for a Head Unit(HU) with low performed ECU.

## Proposed solution

Firstly, PTW can be classified into the following classes by their meter display specifications.
 - High-end class: display specifications and ECU performance are equivalent to that of a four-wheeled vehicle.

>  - Middle-end class: a TFT liquid-crystal display but has restrictions such as the area assigned to the SDL is small, and ECU performance is low.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Middle-end class: a TFT liquid-crystal display but has restrictions such as the area assigned to SDL is small, and ECU performance is low.
```

 - Low-end class: simple display specifications and low ECU performance.

> Furthermore, the display specifications of low-cost vehicle models are also equivalent to PTW middle/low-end class models. Therefore, this proposal are for PTW middle/low-end class models and low-cost vehicle models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the display specifications of low-cost vehicle models are also equivalent to PTW middle/low-end class models. Therefore, this proposal is for PTW middle/low-end class models and low-cost vehicle models.
```

> In the current SDL system configuration, HU implements SDL Core and SDL HMI as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current SDL system configuration, the HU implements SDL Core and SDL HMI as follows.
```

<b>Figure1.</b> Current SDL system configuration

![Figure1_Current_SDL_system_configuration.png](../assets/proposals/NNNN-Add-new-SDL-System-Structure-using-Mediation-Application/Figure1_Current_SDL_system_configuration.png)

> However, in the PTW middle/low-end models and low-cost vehicle models, since HU can only implement the low performed ECU, it can not implement the large programs such as SDL Core. Therefore, in this proposal, the target is to add new SDL system which move the SDL Core to smartphone like follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in the PTW middle/low-end models and low-cost vehicle models, since the HU can only implement the low performance ECU, it cannot implement the large programs such as SDL Core. Therefore, in this proposal, the target is to add a new SDL system which moves SDL Core to the smartphone as follows.
```

<b>Figure2.</b> new SDL system configuration for low performed ECU

![Figure2_new_SDL_system_configuration.png](../assets/proposals/NNNN-Add-new-SDL-System-Structure-using-Mediation-Application/Figure2_new_SDL_system_configuration.png)

> In order to move SDL Core from HU to smartphone as it is, it is necessary to create the SDL application called `Mediation Application` which can connect and control to SDL App, SDL Core and SDL HMI. In the case of Android Mediation Application, the NDK(Native Development Kit) is used to implement the SDL Core as it is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to move SDL Core from the HU to smartphone as it is, it is necessary to create the SDL application called `Mediation Application` which can connect to and control the SDL App, SDL Core and SDL HMI. In the case of Android Mediation Application, the NDK (Native Development Kit) is used to implement SDL Core as it is.
```

> Basically, in the Mediation Application, the comunicatation with SDL App, SDL Core and SDL HMI is needed. And also, it will be need to absorb the difference between the current system and the new one. Morever, HMI API which HU needs is only send.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basically, in the Mediation Application, communication between the SDL App, SDL Core and SDL HMI is needed. Also, it will need to absorb the difference between the current system and the new one. Moreover, only the HMI API which the HU needs is sent.
```

Therefore, the changes made in each component to establish this system are shown below.

###### 1. To App Library
 - Addition of the system identification function

>  - Addition of the function to switch the communication destination and mean

Reviewer: Can you please clarify the intention of this bullet? I'm confused by "the communication destination and mean"

Author: @theresalech -san,
Thank you for your comment.

In the current SDL System, the SDL app (App Library) communicates to the SDL Core in the HU using BT, USB and etc.
Also, in a new SDL System, the SDL app (App Library) will communicate to the SDL Core in the Mediation Application at the same smartphone using the socket communication protocol.
Therefore, the App Library need to implement the function to switch the communication destination and method for each SDL System.
If needed, we will modify to replace the word from "means" to "method".

We hope this comment will be help your understanding.

>  - Addition of the function of the communication destination and mean

Reviewer: Can you please clarify the intention of this bullet? I'm confused by "the communication destination and mean"

Author: We explained this comment above.

###### 2. To Mediation Application

>  - Implemantation of SDL Core(using NDK etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Implementation of SDL Core (using NDK etc.)
```

 - Addition of the communication to App Library and notification to SDL Core
 - Addition of function to determine whether the message from SDL Core is related to new SDL system
 - Addition of the support function for RPCs except for new SDL system

>  - Addition of the function to determine the display destination(on HU or smartphone)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Addition of the function to determine the display destination (on HU or smartphone)
```

 - Addition of the function to manage the conflict of RPC messages

>  - Addition of the screen display function on the smartphone(SDL App list etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Addition of the screen display function on the smartphone (SDL app list etc.)
```

>  - Addition of the connection function to SDL App store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Addition of the connection function to the SDL app store
```

 - Addition of SDL App deletion function
 - Addition of the function to manage the HMI status

>  - Addition of the function how to reacquire information(such as Policy table etc.) when connecting to another HU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Addition of the function to reacquire information (such as Policy table etc.) when connecting to another HU
```

###### 3. To SDL Core

>  - There is no changes from current SDL Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - There are no changes from current SDL Core.
```

###### 4. To SDL HMI

>  - Addition of the guideline for development of HU. (Implementation is handled by each OEM.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Additional information in the HMI Integration Guidelines for development of HU. (Implementation is handled by each OEM.)
```

> The changes above will be provide a separate proposal for each change after this proposal is accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The changes above will be provided in a separate proposal for each change after this proposal is accepted.
```

## Potential downsides

This proposal is to provide new SDL system with low performed ECU such as PTW and low-cost vehicles, thus it assumes that it requires costs of management and maintenance.
However, it is assumed that the management and maintenance costs will be reduced for the following reasons.

>  - It will use SDL Core same as current one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - It will use the current SDL Core.
```

 - There is not any management about SDL HMI, only manages the guideline.

>  - In the case of HU with low performed ECU, there is no OS and the programing language is different. Therefore, generalization is not possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - In the case of a HU with low performance ECU, there is no OS and the programming language is different. Therefore, generalization is not possible.
```

>  - The App Library will be shared by adding a function to determine if it is a low performed ECU system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The App Library will be shared by adding a function to determine if it is a low performance ECU system.
```

From the above, the management and maintenance of the Mediation App would be newly generated.

## Impact on existing code

> ###### 1. App library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### 1. App Library
```

>  - As described above, a determination function and a communication destination and method to the new SDL system will be added, but the existing code will not be affected because systems that do not meet the determination conditions or do not have the conditions will continue to operate with the existing basic system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - As described above, a determination function and a communication destination and method to the new SDL system will be added, but the existing code will not be affected because systems that do not meet the determination conditions or do not have the conditions will continue to operate within the existing basic system.
```

###### 2. Mediation App
 - It will be used in the new SDL system, so there will be no impact on the existing code.

###### 3. SDL Core
 - At this time, there will be no impact on existing code as we plan to use the current SDL Core as is.

###### 4. SDL HMI
 - In the new SDL system, SDL HMI will be implemented by OEM and SDLC will only provide the guidelines, so there will be no impact on the existing code.

> ###### 5. Policy table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### 5. Policy Server
```

>  - There will be no impact on existing code as it is created for each system and OEM.

Reviewer: Please provide the updates required to the example Policy Server (https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_server), or remove `Policy Server` from the "Impacted Platforms" section of this proposal.

Author: @theresalech -san,
Thank you for your comment.
We will remove `Policy server` from "Impacted Platforms" and make a commit it.
Thank you.

###### 6. SHAID

>  - There will be no impact on existing code as the new SDL system will still use SHAID as before.

Reviewer: Please remove `SHAID` from the "Impacted Platforms" section of this proposal if no changes are needed.

Author: @theresalech -san,
We will remove `SHAID` from the "Impacted Platforms" and make a commit it.
Thank you.

###### 7. RPC

>  - For both Mobile and HMI API, there will be no additional RPC, but parameters will be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - For both the Mobile and HMI APIs, there will be no additional RPC, but parameters will be added.
```
Please also provide more detail on the added parameters.

Author: @theresalech -san,
For example,
we assume the something to show the low performance ECU will be added in the `VehicleType`.
Also, we assume the something to show the display types for PTW will be added in the `DisplayType`.

###### 8. Protocol

>  - The new SDL system will use Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) for communication, so there will be no impact on the existing code.

Reviewer: Please remove `Protocol` from the "Impacted Platforms" section of this proposal if no changes are needed.

Author: @theresalech -san,
We will remove `protocol` from the "Impacted Platforms" and make a commit it.
Thank you.

## Alternatives considered

An alternative proposal is the lightweight SDL Core proposed in [SDL 0302 - SDL System Structure for Middle/Low-end Class Model of Powered Two Wheeler](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/1004).

> However, this proposal is not a viable alternative because it does not describe specific modifications and has many disadvantages as described below. Therefore, there is no alternative proposal at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this proposal is not a viable alternative because it does not describe specific modifications and has many disadvantages as described below. Therefore, there is no viable alternative proposal at this time.
```

 - Management between apps needs to be handled by the HU

>  - The App library made for low performed ECU is required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The App Library made for low performance ECU is required
```

>  - The display destination(on the smartphone or on the HU) needs to be managed by the App library etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The display destination (on the smartphone or on the HU) needs to be managed by the App Library etc.
```

>  - RPC conflicts can be avoided by Router Service or iAP, but management control of RPC priority from each App needs to be handled by the HU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - RPC conflicts can be avoided by Router Service or iAP, but management control of RPC priority from each app needs to be handled by the HU
```

###### 4. SDL HMI
 - In the new SDL system, SDL HMI will be implemented by OEM and SDLC will only provide the guidelines, so there will be no impact on the existing code.

###### 5. Policy Server
 - There will be no impact on existing code as it is created for each system and OEM.

###### 6. SHAID
 - There will be no impact on existing code as the new SDL system will still use SHAID as before.

###### 7. RPC

>  - For both the Mobile and HMI APIs, there will be no additional RPC, but parameters will be added.

Reviewer: Please also add the additional details of new parameters to this section.

>  - For both the Mobile and HMI APIs, there will be no additional RPC, but parameters will be added.

Author: @theresalech -san,
Thank you for your advice.
We added the additional details and made a commit it.
Please confirm it.
Thank you.
